dbt copilot ide ga (#7011)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud.md

The dbt Cloud IDE offers several [keyboard shortcuts](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/keyboard-shortcuts) and [editing features](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/ide-user-interface#editing-features) for faster and efficient development and governance:

- Syntax highlighting for SQL &mdash; Makes it easy to distinguish different parts of your code, reducing syntax errors and enhancing readability.

> - AI copilot &mdash; Use [dbt Copilot](/docs/cloud/dbt-copilot), a powerful AI engine that can [generate code](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-and-edit-code) using natural language, and [generate resources](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-resources) (like documentation, tests, and semantic models) for you &mdash; with the click of a button. Check out [Develop with dbt Copilot](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot) for more details.

Author: ```suggestion
- AI copilot &mdash; Use [dbt Copilot](/docs/cloud/dbt-copilot), an AI-powered assistant that can [generate code](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-and-edit-code) using natural language, and [generate resources](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-resources) (like documentation, tests, and semantic models) for you &mdash; with the click of a button. Check out [Develop with dbt Copilot](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot) for more details.
```

| **Preview and Compile button** | You can [compile or preview](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/ide-user-interface#console-section) code, a snippet of dbt code, or one of your dbt models after editing and saving. |

> | [**dbt Copilot**](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot) <Lifecycle status='beta' />| A powerful AI engine that can [generate code](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-and-edit-code) using natural language, and [generate resources](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-resources) (like documentation, tests, metrics, and semantic models) for you &mdash; with the click of a button. Available for dbt Cloud Enterprise plans. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [**dbt Copilot**](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot) <Lifecycle status='beta' />| A powerful AI-powered assistant that can [generate code](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-and-edit-code) using natural language, and [generate resources](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-resources) (like documentation, tests, metrics, and semantic models) for you &mdash; with the click of a button. Available for dbt Cloud Enterprise plans. |
```

  - Starting from dbt v1.6, leverage [environments variables](/docs/build/environment-variables#special-environment-variables) to dynamically use the Git branch name. For example, using the branch name as a prefix for a development schema.
  - Run [MetricFlow commands](/docs/build/metricflow-commands) to create and manage metrics in your project with the [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl).

> - **Generate your YAML configurations with dbt Copilot** <Lifecycle status="enterprise,beta"/>  &mdash; [dbt Copilot](/docs/cloud/dbt-copilot) is a powerful artificial intelligence (AI) feature that helps automate development in dbt Cloud. It can [generate code](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-and-edit-code) using natural language, and [generate resources](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-resources) (like documentation, tests, metrics,and semantic models) for you directly in the dbt Cloud IDE, so you can accomplish more in less time. Available for dbt Cloud Enterprise plans.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Generate your YAML configurations with dbt Copilot** <Lifecycle status="enterprise"/>  &mdash; [dbt Copilot](/docs/cloud/dbt-copilot) is a powerful artificial intelligence (AI) feature that helps automate development in dbt Cloud. It can [generate code](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-and-edit-code) using natural language, and [generate resources](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-copilot#generate-resources) (like documentation, tests, metrics,and semantic models) for you directly in the dbt Cloud IDE, so you can accomplish more in less time. Available for dbt Cloud Enterprise plans.
```
